---
layout: post
title: Week 13:Wrapping Up
---

This week was a pretty short one in Open Source. As a class we did Stand Ups again and learned about everyone's progress thus far. Individually, my team and I continued working on our contribution for Oppia. 

I enjoyed hearing from the other groups once again. It's so interesting how different all of our group's work with eachother. All of our contributions are so diverse, yet we are all contributing to open source in one way or another. I remember a few details about each group, but I was especially impressed by the group doing translations for their project. That is a very useful and large contribution in my opinion and I hope to learn more about how they were able to do that when they present. 

As for my group's project, we are just about done writing the code for the first page of the welcome guide we are creating for the Oppia website. We will be making our first, but large PR to Oppia tommorow night. There is a lot involved in making a PR for Oppia. You not only have to complete the assigned task, but you have to make sure the code is written in a certain way, organized in a certain way and in general up to the standards of the community. I definitely underestimated what it takes to make an open source contribution, but I am glad I had the opportunity to learn about this process with a great project like Oppia.

I look forward to hearing some of the groups present this week and hopefully my team and I get our PR approved and merged!


