---
layout: post
title: Week 10:Our Group Project, Other Group Projects and Wiki
---

This week my group and I continued to work on our contribution for Oppia, and we also got to hear how the other groups are contributing to their projects. 

## Group Stand Ups

I enjoyed hearing how everyone else was navigating their projects. It made me realize that there is no one right way to contribute to open source. While some of us decided to make multiple smaller contributions addressing bugs or discrepencies in documentation, others are working towards one bigger contribution. 

While I think all groups are doing a great job so far I was very interested in hearing about the group working on p5.js, mostly because that was one of the projects I was interested in working on. They seem to be going in the direction of making tons of smaller contributions, at least so far. I am glad I got to see them present because I learned how inviting the p5.js community truly is and how receptive they are to contributions. I plan on trying to make my own individual contribution to the project based on this group's presentation of the community. 

## Oppia Progress
This week my team and I continued to work on our contribution for Oppia. Last week we got feedback on our wireframes for the page we are adding to their website. Based on that feedback we drafted up a second set of wireframes, but there is still some changes to be done. 

The process of wireframing is taking longer than I expected and I believe I know why. I cannot speak for my group, but I know for me at least I got too focused on making the page something I wanted to see. Instead I should have been thinking about it in the context of the entire website. The page needs to look like it belongs to the Oppia website and it needs to be made with the users in mind. 

My team and I going forward are keeping this in mind as we try to model the page after the other pages on site rather than coming up with something completely different from what we personally would like to see on the page. We plan on finalizing the wireframes this week. 


## Wikipedia
I have only contributed to Wikipedia once, where I added a red link to a movie franchise I am a fan of. They have a new movie being filmed right now for the franchise, but it does not have a page yet, which I why I wanted to created a red link for it in the meantime.

Although I have not contributed to Wikipedia a ton, Wikipedia is the reason why I am so good at Trivia. We live in an information generation and Wikipedia is where I get my information. I stray away from Wikipedia for academic research because teachers would always advise against it, so that's just always stuck with me. But for pop culture research or just everyday questions I have I pretty much always refer to Wikipedia. 
